---
id: routes
title: Routes
---

Basically, routes map user inputs to actions which are in fact React Components.

## User Inputs

The user input is captured as an object with the following fields:

- **Type:** the input type, which can be one of the following:
  `text`, `postback`, `audio`, `image`, `video`, `document`, `location`, `referral`

* **Data:** the raw text (or attachment URL if it's a media type).

- **Payload:** the input caused by the user clicking on a button or quick reply.

* **Intent:** the intent of the user according to your bot's NLU

```javascript
{
    type: 'text',
    data: 'Hello!'
    payload: '',
    intent: 'Greetings'
}
```

## Mapping User Inputs Into Actions

Every route, which is an entry in the routes' array can be defined in `src/routes.js`:

```javascript
export const routes = []
```

Conceptually, a route is composed by a matching rule and an action. A matching rule looks like this: `{attribute: test}`,
which basically means: "take that attribute from the user input and apply the test" if the test passes, the action defined in that route will be triggered.

There are 5 different ways of passing these tests:

- **String:** Perfect match
- **Regexp:** Pass the regular expression
- **Function:** Passes if the function returns true
- **Input:** Passes if the input satisfies the condition
- **Session:** Passes if the condition of the session is met

The rules are tested in such a way that, if the first rule matches, Botonic does not test
other routes and executes the first action.
If there are several matching rules in the same route, all of them have to pass
to consider a match.

In the following example, the first rule matches if and only if we get the text `start` and will trigger the action defined in `src/actions/start.js`

```javascript
{path: 'start', text: 'start', action: Start}
```

Below, another text rule (perfect match) to trigger the `end` action

```javascript
{path: 'end', text: 'end', action: End}
```

These rules use a case insensitive regexp to match text messages that contain
a certain text. For the example below, will capture 'BUTTONS', 'Buttons', etc.

```javascript
{path: 'buttons', text: /^buttons$/i, action: Buttons}
```

If you want to use regexp with grouped values, you need to upgrade Node to `v.10`
or above. This regular expression match `age-{NUMBER}` where NUMBER can be any digit.
Then, in your component `bye`, you can access this in `req.params`

```javascript
{path: 'age', text: /^age-(?<age>\d*)/, action: Age}
```

Below, a few examples of how to capture different payloads.

```javascript
{path: 'carousel', payload: 'carousel', action: Carousel},
{path: 'quickreply', payload: /^(yes|no)$/, action: QuickreplyResponse}
```

It is posible to use a function test to capture any text that starts with `bye`

```javascript
{path: 'bye', text: (t) => t.startsWith('bye'), action: Bye}
```

You can move to a new action if a condition over the user input is met

```javascript
{path: 'greet', input: (i) => i.type === 'text' && i.intent === 'greetings', action: Greet}
```

Otherwise, you can move forward to new actions depending on session values

```javascript
{ path: 'promotion', session: (s) => s.user.id < 150000, action: Promotion }
```

Below, we see how to capture different intents

```javascript
  { path: 'greetings', intent: 'Greetings', action: Start },
  { path: 'book-restaurant', intent: 'BookRestaurant', action: ShowRestaurants },
  { path: 'get-directions', intent: 'GetDirections', action: ShowDirections }
```

There's an implicit rule that captures any other input and maps it to
the `404` action, it would be the equivalent to:

```javascript
{path: '404', type: /^.*$/, action: NotFound}
```

## Dynamic Routes

At times, you might want to render only some routes in function of a certain condition,
so you can optionally define them as a function receiving the input and the session object.

```javascript
import { MainFlowRoutes } from './actions/main_flow/main_flow.routes'

export function routes({ input, session }) {
  if (session.is_first_interaction) {
    return [
      {
        path: 'userWelcome',
        text: /.*/,
        action: UserWelcome,
      },
    ]
  } else return [...MainFlowRoutes]
}
```
