---
id: deployment
title: Deploying your Bot
---

Testing your bot in the terminal with `botonic serve` is fast, easy and convenient when your bot is in development, but eventually you're going to have to test on a messaging platform. Not only it is the only way to accurately test how your bot will behave and perform, but many special features, like requesting a location and sending files, will only work when they are run on the actual messaging platforms. Likewise, many features may look and work differently on different platforms.

>Note: If you are working on Windows, use `npm run start` instead of `botonic serve`.

## Deploy to Hubtype

1. From your command line terminal run `botonic deploy`.
2. If it's the first time you deploy a bot, Botonic asks you to enter your credentials:
   - Log in with your email/password if you already signed up at [hubtype.com](https://hubtype.com/).
   - Or create a new account on-the-fly.
3. Enter a name for your bot.

## Results

Botonic builds your project and uploads it to the Hubtype desk. That's it. You don't have to worry about servers, scaling or any other infrastructure. **Your bot will just work at any scale**.

Botonic stores your credentials in the `~/.botonic/credentials.json` file so you don't have to enter your email/password every time.

If you want to deploy with another account, run `botonic logout` or delete the `~/.botonic/` folder. The next time you deploy, you'll be prompted for new credentials.

Botonic also stores bot metadata in `.botonic.json` at the root of your project. It remembers which bot in the cloud corresponds to your local bot.

The last step to perform before your users can talk to our bot is connecting it to a messaging channel.
